[THEME MUSIC]
>>TIMOTHY HOGAN: Excellent.
I'm going to be talking about
stuff related to the Knights
Templar and Egypt and
some of the discoveries
that they found in Egypt,
also other places that
had a huge influence on
what they were doing.
I'm not going to get into all
the history of the Knights
Templar and their background
and their persecution
and any of that stuff.
But I'm going to
give you a summary,
basically, at first
just saying that,
look, the Knights Templar
were established--
according to
standard historians,
they were established in 1118.
Privately, the
order was actually
established as early as 1096.
And the people who set it up
came from certain families that
were passing down traditions.
They largely came from
Gnostic Albigensian families.
Though Hugues de Payens, who
was the first grandmaster
of the Knights Templar,
he had actually
come from an Islamic
Sufi background.
And they had a lot of
influence at the beginning
from Jewish
Kabbalistic traditions,
different Gnostic traditions.
There were certain Scottish
traditions and Druid traditions
that had all contributed to
the formation of this order.
And though the order is usually
associated with the Crusades
and with--
most people think of it as
being a Roman Catholic army.
Even though the Templars did use
the Roman Church for patronage
for about 200 years,
privately they
continued to pass on
an esoteric doctrine
that they had inherited
through their family lines.
And the real reason
why they were set up--
I mean, it was said
that they were set up
to protect pilgrims
in the Holy Land
during the time of the Crusades.
But in reality, they were--
they're doing archaeology.
And they were doing research.
They were digging.
And they were looking
for certain artifacts.
And the reason why they were
looking for them is, one,
they were concerned that if--
they knew the Crusades
would get out of control.
And as Crusaders found
some of this stuff,
it would get turned over to
the Roman Church at the time.
And then it would disappear.
So they didn't want
that to happen.
They wanted to actually find
certain artifacts that they
knew existed in the Holy Land.
But even beyond
that, their mission
was more concerned with--
they knew from both their family
lines and from other traditions
that they were associated
with prior to 1118,
that there was
probably something
to the flood myth in antiquity.
They looked to the Bible.
They looked to the Torah.
And they saw the story
of Noah's Ark, which
was the only thing
in Europe at the time
that they could
primarily look to.
But they had associations
with other groups
and other places that also
had these flood myths.
And so they knew
there was something
to the flood myths, number one.
And number two, they
believed that there
was a high civilization that
had existed prior to the flood
and that this high civilization
had passed on philosophy
and technology to
different groups
after the collapse of
this high civilization.
And this is, of course, we now
recognize as being associated
with the Atlantis myth.
But we have to remember, during
the time of the templars,
all those texts of Plato and
the other Greek philosophers
and the texts of people
like Pythagoras and others,
these were just starting
to be translated.
They were just starting to--
there were certain
groups, like the Druze--
the Tawhid Muwahhidun Druze of
the Middle East and the Sabians
and others in the Middle East,
who were attaining these texts
and were translating them.
There were other
Islamic groups that
were translating these texts.
And the Templars,
their mission was
to go out and seek out
all the groups that
was believed to be
survivors of that cataclysm.
It was believed that after that
high civilization had collapsed,
it had spread out.
And it had set up
outposts, if you will,
in different parts around
Europe, the Middle East, Africa,
and other places.
And so the Templars wanted
to seek out these traditions
to find what they had preserved.
So even though most people think
of them as primarily existing
in Europe and in Jerusalem,
maybe in Constantinople,
the Templars actually spread
out all over the place
because they were looking
for this last knowledge.
And they knew that if they
could re-find it and bring it
back to Europe, that it would
bring about a new Renaissance.
And that was their goal.
And in fact, that worked
out for the most part.
By 1307, the Templars
were suppressed.
By 1314, the grand
master and several others
were burnt at the stake.
And most people think that was
the end of the Templar order.
But it actually wasn't.
It just went underground
and continued to exist.
Scott Wolter, who's
in the audience,
will be speaking more on some of
that at the next presentation,
after this one.
So I hope you stick around
after this for that.
So what I'm going to
focus on today primarily
is we're going to look at some
of the cultures and traditions
that the Templars
were associated with
and, in particular, some of
what they were finding in Egypt
because most people don't
realize because no one's
ever written about it--
I'm actually writing a
book about it right now--
that the Templars spent
a lot of time in Egypt.
They set up preceptories
and commanderies
all throughout
Egypt because they
were studying the temple walls.
They were looking for evidence
of this lost civilization.
And they found it.
And then they also were trying
to find some of the sciences.
And one of the main sciences
that they came to realize
was alchemy, the
science of alchemy.
We'll get into this more.
But alchemy-- just as a
general summary, alchemy
is the science of transmutation.
It is the precursor
to chemistry.
In fact, the word chemistry
comes from alchemistry.
And alchemy gets its name
literally from Chem or Kemet,
which was the ancient
name for Egypt.
And most people, when they think
of alchemy and the alchemists,
they think of these alchemical
philosophers who are writing
on the subject in the 1400s,
1500s, and 1600s primarily.
People with names like Michael
Maier, Thomas Vaughan, Robert
Fludd, even Isaac Newton
was obsessed with alchemy.
But these writers of the 1500s
and 1600s and even 1700s all
said that, look, this was a
science that came from Egypt.
They don't necessarily
talk about how
it was the Templars who
brought it up into Europe.
But the evidence is there.
So let's start getting into
some of the slides here.
This particular
image right here,
these are actually
images of initiations
that the Templar order continues
to do within the Great Pyramid
of Egypt.
And we've been doing that for
over the last 1,000 years pretty
regularly.
But it goes back, all the
way back to the 1100s,
when the order was in there.
And in fact, there's even
graffiti in the Great Pyramid
to this day.
That so-called sarcophagus
within the King's Chamber
of the Great Pyramid is--
it actually has some
graffiti carved into it.
It has an alpha and an
omega symbol carved into it.
And that was by Templars,
clear back in the 1100s,
when they were doing
initiations in there.
So been doing it
for a long time.
The Templars were looking to
these ancient civilizations
that had been passing
on these flood myths.
So they went into
places not only
into Egypt and into
Jerusalem but also
into places like Iraq and Iran.
They were looking
at the Mesopotamian,
the Sumerian images.
Here, in particular, this
figure from ancient Sumer,
he's wearing what was to
become the Templar cross.
In fact, this is where
the Templars actually
got the symbol of the
equal armed cross from.
It wasn't something given
to them by the Roman Church.
It was actually-- they were
looking at these ancient myths
associated with the Anunnaki
and also the "Epic of Gilgamesh"
and the flood myths there
and the search for an elixir
of immortality.
That was the myth of the
Gilgamesh, which was--
in fact, they believed this was
part of this alchemical science.
They also looked to
the myths of Oannes.
And the story of
Oannes is that--
I mean, we have a couple
of depictions of Oannes
here with the fish skin, hat,
and holding the little bag.
Here's some more depictions of
Oannes from ancient Sumerian.
But Oannes, according
to the myths, Oannes,
came out of the ocean,
bringing the seeds
to rebuild civilization.
And he basically
baptized priests, kings,
and then taught them how to
set up civilization according
to the Sumerian myths.
Well, to the Templars--
they became quickly
aware of the fact
that the official feast
day of Oannes was June 24.
According to the pagan
calendar, June 24
was the feast day of Oannes.
And there was another person
who also had a feast day on June
24th, who also baptized
priests, kings,
and who had a very similar name.
And this was actually
John the Baptist.
And, in fact, in the myths of
John the Baptist or the stories
of John the baptist, the word
"John," as we in English,
actually comes from
Johannes in German,
which in turn traces
back to Ioannes in Greek.
So the Greek name
for John the Baptist,
which would have been the name
actually found in the Bible,
would be Ioannes.
So it's very
interesting that here we
have this figure, Ioannes,
who is baptizing priest kings
and whose feast day was June 24.
And this just happens to also
be the feast day of Oannes,
which was also June 24.
So the Templars
immediately recognized
in this story of
John the Baptist
that it was an echo or a shadow
of the earlier story of Oannes.
So this was, again, one of the
things that the Templars were
looking into.
Actually, Scott gave
me this picture.
This is a Templar graffiti
just outside of Gobekli Tepe.
And he's going to be
getting into this more.
But I point this out because
the area of Gobekli Tepe is--
and I hope everyone here
knows what Gobekli Tepe is,
I'm assuming.
This is a more educated audience
than some that I present to.
That whole area where Gobekli
Tepe is, is in the ancient times
was referred to as Harran,
this area in Turkey.
And Harran is actually the
foundation post, if you will,
of a group known as the Sabians.
And the Sabians is one of
these groups in the Middle East
that the Templars
were associating with.
And they were learning astronomy
and astrology from the Sabians,
they are in particular
are great astrologers,
but they were also
passing on alchemy.
To this day, there are
still Sabian groups,
and they actually visit the
Great Pyramid once a year
to check the alignment
of the Giza Plateau
with certain star
constellations.
They've been doing
this for centuries.
And the Sabians are also
mentioned in the Qur'an.
In fact, the Qur'an says
the people of the book are
the people that are acceptable
to God or Allah are the Jews,
the Christians, the
Muslims, and the Sabians.
And an interesting
backstory of the Sabians,
traditionally, they
were Hermeticists.
They worshipped
the god Hermes, who
was also said to be the
patron saint of alchemy.
And basically, when the Muslims
encountered them, they said.
well, you guys are
cool, but we can't have
you worshipping pagan idols.
And they said, OK, well, what
do you want us to do about it?
And the Muslims said, well,
just change it to Idris.
Idris is Hermes.
So we'll just say you're
worshipping Idris,
and then everything's cool.
And they were like, OK, cool.
So if you ever encounter
people in the Middle East
with the name of Idris,
there's a good possibility
they could be
Hermeticists or studying
the philosophy of
Hermes Trismegistus,
and they usually come
from a tradition that
is studying alchemy as well,
because again, Idris was
the patron saint of alchemy.
But my point is with this is
that the Templars went to that
area of Harran where
the Sabians were,
and they started encountering
what was around Gobekli Tepe I
mean, clear back in the
1100s, long before--
people are making all
excited about it today,
but this is some of that Templar
graffiti that's in that area.
All right.
So the Templars
went into Jerusalem.
They were digging
into the Temple Mount.
That's pretty well established.
People know about it.
But then they also
went into Egypt.
And what we have here, this
is actually the hieroglyph
for Chem or Kemet, the
ancient name for Egypt.
And I'm going to just quickly
go through some of these slides.
Part of what the Templars
discovered immediately in Egypt
was there is evidence
of technology
all over the place there.
It's just people aren't used
to looking at it that way.
For example, this is on a
Giza Plateau clear evidence
of machining marks, saw marks,
cutting into this granite.
Everyone's so excited
about the pyramids,
obviously, on the Giza
Plateau and the Sphinx.
But possibly, one of
the more amazing feats
that had been done--
and I'm not going to say
the Egyptians did it.
I believe the
Egyptians inherited it.
I'll show that more
as we go along.
But the actual plateau that
the pyramids were built on,
all of that was laid
out and sculpted,
and incredible
stonework and masonry
was put in to just clear
out and create the plateau
to begin with.
And you'll find things in it.
Like here's a stone
on the plateau.
It has one, two, three, four,
five, six, seven, eight,
eight angles to it.
And it fits perfectly
just like a jigsaw puzzle.
And that whole
plateau is that way.
And it's reminiscent
of things that you'll
see in Peru, for
example, at places
like Saqsaywaman
and other places
all around Peru near Cusco.
And the same types of cuts
are found at the Temple
of the Sphinx enclosure.
Just incredible stones
that are interlocking
like Jigsaw puzzles.
And one of the
benefits of this is
when you have
stones interlocking
like this, the way it
distributes the energy allows
it to be earthquake proof.
So that's an important point.
This is one of the things that
the Templars were finding.
And this is, of course, nothing
like what they were finding
anywhere in Europe at the time.
They also found, again,
more drill marks.
This is around rose granite.
Here's a very clear drill
mark into the granite.
They would take a diamond,
high-pressure drill
to even do that, but we know
it was done in ancient times,
thus implying significantly
high technology to do it.
The dynastic Egyptians
simply didn't have this.
They had copper
tools, and they just
didn't have the means
to do this type of thing
according to
standard archeology,
thus implying that
they inherited this.
The Templars also
discovered here on the left,
if you look real closely,
you'll see this is almost
looks like a road.
That's actually
the top of a tunnel
that's leading into the Great
Pyramid on the Giza Plateau.
So that's one of the things
that the Templars found.
And they found that they could
get into the Great Pyramid
through these
underground tunnels.
Another thing that was
significant, on the right
here, this is at Edfu
where the Templars also
had a base of operations.
They had to set up
a preceptory there.
In fact, if you go to Egypt,
all of these significant temples
all around Egypt still have
Templar markers or Templar
graffiti at them.
And that's how we know part
of what they were doing.
But Edfu is in particular was
where the Atlantis myth had
been preserved on the walls.
And this is probably
where Plato got it from,
the story of Atlantis
was from Edfu.
But in the sanctum at Edfu to
this day, there's still a--
what this is, is it's
a remnant of an ark.
It's a replica of an ark
like the Ark of the Covenant.
The Templars quickly
discovered that
at all of these temples,
places like Edfu,
at Esna, at Dendera,
the Temple of Hathor,
at Dendera, at Abydos, and
a number of other places.
The Egyptians were preserving on
the walls mention of these arks
just like the Ark
of the Covenant.
But they were all
throughout the temple walls.
And at one point
in time, these arks
were being preserved in the
sanctum sanctorum or the Holy
of Holies of these temples.
The Templars
believed, and we still
continue to believe that
these arks were actually
an ancient Atlantean technology.
They had been preserved by
the Egyptians for a while
until they were removed from
Egypt or stolen from Egypt.
Some historians even believe
that the real reason why
the pharaoh was pursuing
Moses was because he
had stolen one of these arks.
And so he was chasing them down.
But there were two things that
we can count on with these arks.
One, is they always
went in the sanctum
sanctorum or the Holy of
Holies of the Egyptian temples.
And two, is they were built
to contain a special substance
that the Bible
referred to as manna.
The Egyptian temple walls
refer to it as white cake.
In fact, this
hieroglyph right here
looks like a spoon, that
actually means white.
And then this mound
shape means cake.
White cake.
So these were sometimes
referred to as white cake.
They were also
sometimes referred
to as mfktz, which can also
be translated as turquoise.
But it's because
they were finding
this substance, this white
substance in a part of Egypt
where they also were
digging for turquoise.
But we always find
these things together.
And the Templars
quickly realized
from their communication with
the members of the Coptic Church
in Egypt that had
been preserving
some of this knowledge, as well
as their study of the temple
walls, that this white
powder, this white substance
was an alchemical
substance, and it
was something that had to
be extracted alchemically.
And we'll be looking at
that here in a minute.
On the left here, here you
see pharaoh again holding
one of these white cakes.
And this is something you'll
see at all the temples in Egypt.
They're always offering
these white cakes,
these conical cakes to the
netjer or the gods in Egypt.
And there's always
usually an ark
nearby just like in the
stories of the Bible.
On the right here, this is
probably a little harder to see,
but there's actually three
of these cones right here.
And this comes from the treasure
house of Pharaoh Thutmose
III, which is found at Karnak.
And if you go to Karnak, he
has all these vessels depicted,
these alchemical vessels.
And then he has all of these
cakes, these conical cakes,
which related to this manna
which the pharaohs were eating,
and they were also
putting in the arks.
And we'll talk about
that more soon.
But it's found all over
the walls in Egypt.
What that substance is
in modern depictions--
here's some manna, some
of this white cakes
that were actually produced
alchemically in the lab.
And this is what it looks like
before it settles when you first
manifest it.
And then as it
settles it actually
forms this conical shape.
That's where the Egyptians
got it from, was from this--
because that's how it settles.
It settles in this mound.
It looks like a conical shape.
And we'll look at
that more soon too.
Here's an example.
This is at Abydos.
There's actually a
secret chamber at Abydos
that they closed to the public.
They don't allow the public in.
And the reason why they don't
allow the public in there is
because there is
Templar graffiti,
that's what these
red crosses are,
there's Templar graffiti
from clear back in the 1100s.
And then what's actually
being depicted above it,
which is a little hard to
see, is one of these arks.
So the Templars were very
clearly pointing out clear back
in the 1200s they're
emphasizing, look,
we found one of these arks.
This particular room
where this was in
was the former laboratory
area in Abydos.
Here's another image of it
without me in the picture.
So here you see the crosses.
This is actually
the ark right here.
And then up here, again,
you see a figure holding one
of these mound cakes,
this alchemical substance.
And it was believed
that this was something
that had been inherited
from a pre-civilization
and was only rediscovered
by the Egyptians.
Here's some more of that mural.
The crosses would be
over here on the left,
but here it's actually
showing the ark going
under transportation in a boat.
And so what you see
here is actually
this is the same thing that
was found in that sanctum
sanctorum at Edfu
where they have
that reproduction of the ark.
But here they're moving it.
Here's some more arks.
This is at Dendera.
And, in fact, this
particular one
is levitating off the ground.
You can see where the
feet are of the people.
And there's some sort
of a field around it,
and it's levitating
off the ground.
And we'll talk more about
that in a few minutes too.
Here's some more arks.
That's at Dendera at a
private chamber at the Temple
of Hathor at Dendera.
If you've ever seen the famous
so-called light bulb hieroglyph,
it's in the same chamber
as the light bulb.
It's just the light bulb
is further down from it.
And this is just an
example I want to show you.
These are two little
models, but this
is a model of the
Ark of the Covenant
according to traditional
Jewish sources.
This is a traditional
Egyptian box.
The ark that you find
on the temple walls
they're the same thing.
They both are a golden box
with these winged figures
on the top of it, and
they're carried by poles.
Here are some other depictions
of modern day reproductions
of arks that the Egyptian
government has created
and the Egyptian antiquities
have created in recent years.
You'll find these
at different places,
including outside of Luxor,
different museums, and stuff.
But this big box in
the center of the boat
is supposed to be
the ark itself.
And it even has the winged
figures on the side of it.
One of the other things that
the Templars came across
is they started learning--
while they couldn't read
all of the hieroglyphs, there
was enough of a tradition
being passed on from the groups
that they were associating
with that they had somewhat of
an idea of what some of it meant
or what the names of
some of the things were.
One of the things that
the Templars were accused
of worshipping when they
were suppressed in 1307
and eventually burnt
at the stake at 1314
was they were accused of
worshipping this figure that was
known as Baphomet or Baphomet.
And on the right here, this is
the pretty standard depiction
of it.
That's by Eliphas Levi.
Eliphas Levi he's
known for writing
on magic and other
things like that,
but more importantly, one of the
things that Napoleon had done
was he had actually captured
all of the Vatican archives.
He actually raided the Vatican,
captured all the archives,
brought them back to
France for a time.
And Eliphas Levi was
one of the priests
who was in charge of
sifting through all
of that stuff that
had been brought back
by Napoleon to France.
He was actually stationed
at an area known as Saint
Sulpice, which is a cathedral.
That's where the
archives are brought to.
And specifically,
Napoleon was looking
for Templar-related artifacts,
Templar-related information.
And, in fact, you can
trace Napoleon's like
his entire campaign of
going to Malta and to Egypt.
And all of this was trying to
hunt down Templar artifacts
that he had become aware
of from the Vatican.
And Eliphas Levi was
one of the people
who was in charge of sifting
through that stuff, which,
just as a side note,
in more recent years,
there was a supposedly this new
document that was discovered
in the Vatican that said that
the Templars had actually--
or that the Vatican had
actually forgiven the Templars
and didn't want
to persecute them.
But, in my opinion,
it's kind of sketchy
that they just found that
recently after all the Dan Brown
hype because if that
thing really existed back
in antiquity, Napoleon would
have found it when he raided
the Vatican to begin with.
>> Yeah, the Chinon Parchment
is the name of it, yeah.
But he never found
that back then,
which leads me to
believe that it's
a more recent forgery
by the Vatican
to try to influence opinion
to a certain degree.
By the way, Napoleon's
personal physician
was a man by the name of
Bernhard Riemann Fabr-Paralat
who was the grandmaster of the
Knights Templar at the time.
So that was
Napoleon's physician.
So that's where he was also
getting some of this information
from.
But back to this image, this
horned figure that is usually
associated with
being a goat, that
was Eliphas Levi's attempt at
depicting what this thing was,
which looks pretty
horrifying and terrifying.
Most people think
of the devil even
though it had different
esoteric significance.
But the real origin of that
name, "Baphomet" actually,
came from the god
Amun of ancient Egypt.
And Amun or Amun-Ra
is another name.
Amun is where we get the
name or the word "Amen" from.
And Amun in ancient Egyptian
just meant the hidden one.
So Amun-Ra just meant the
hidden sun or the hidden--
it also represented
the hidden illumination
or the internal awakening.
And some have said that--
in fact, one of the
earliest prayers to Amun,
which can be found in
the papyrus of Ani,
starts out "Amun, Amun, who art
in heaven, hallowed be thy name.
Thy kingdom come.
Thy will be done
as above, so below.
Give us this day
our daily bread..."
and so on and so forth.
And it ends with "Amun, Amun."
This is actually where
the Lord's prayer
comes from that Jesus promoted.
And, in fact, in
the New Testament,
when the disciples
go to Jesus, they
say, Jesus, Jesus,
how should we pray?
And the Bible says, Jesus
says, well, first of all,
don't go to church and be
seen praying like a hypocrite.
The churches never
recite that part.
[CHUCKLES]
But that's what it
says in the Bible.
It says, if you want to
pray, go into a hidden place
like a closet and
then give this prayer.
So Jesus is actually telling
the people to become the Amun,
to become the hidden one.
And then he gives a prayer
which comes from ancient Egypt
to Amun.
Well, Amun was depicted
as a ram because not
only was that popularized
during the age of Aries, which
is the ram, but in ancient
Egypt, the word for soul
is ba, the ba.
And, of course, what kind
of sound does a ram make?
Baa, right?
So that's the reason why they
had Amun as this ram depicting
this spiritual process because
literally the ram calls out
"ba," which is soul in Egypt.
The word "fa" in ancient
Egyptian and in modern Arabic
means "in."
So if you have "ba," "fa,"
and then, in ancient Egypt,
the word for truth or universal
order was "ma'at" or "maat."
So "ba-fa-maat"
or "the soul in "
or "the soul in
universal order."
That's really what this
word Baphomet comes from.
That's the origin of it.
So this is one of the things
that the Templars figured out.
These are depictions of Amun--
that's at Luxor, actually.
And you'll see them in--
there's an avenue of sphinxes
going right that connects
Karnak to Luxor in Egypt.
And these sphinxes
are depicted as having
the ram head which was Amun
and then they have lion bodies.
And it's believed that one
interpretation behind the reason
why they have this is
because the lion represented
the age of Leo.
And this is where the
cataclysm took place,
it was during the age of Leo.
So the Egyptians were
constantly trying
to point back to that time.
And they were trying to
resurrect the knowledge
from that ancient time.
In fact, Osiris, one of the
chief gods or netjer of Egypt,
he's always depicted
with this funny crown.
Honestly, it looks a
little bit like a condom.
[LAUGHS] Not to get crass.
But what that actually
is supposed to be is
it's supposed to
be a lion's arm.
So that crown again
represents the lion's arm
and the lion's paw.
And that was really,
again, hearkening
back to the age of Leo, to the
time of this pre-civilization
before the cataclysm.
So that's why you see
Amun, even though he
has the ram head, which
represents the time when
these sculptures were
made, he has the lion body
because it's pointing
back to this time
where there was a cataclysm.
We now refer to it as the
Younger Dryas impact event.
But In Plato's time,
the priests were just
referring to it as Atlantis.
And they were also
referring it to as the Zep
Tepi or the first time, the
time that existed before.